CHAPTERS.md, before:

# Chapters

The current status of the chapters are recorded in this file.

## Misc.

Change all instances where I use the word collection to sequence.

Items in this section are necessary to add, but I cannot place them at the moment.
- Checking object types using `is`
- Checking if object in collection using `in`
- *list to unpack
- `map()` function

## Introduction

### Complete

- What is a programming language
- Python, a Dynamic Programming Language

### Enhancements

- Make it more clear what the difference is between
    - Interpreted (really what I was going for with dynamic)
    - Dynamic vs static
    - Dynamic Typing vs static typing

## Python Basics

### Complete

- Intro
- Variables
- Comments
- Type Conversion
- Operators
- Assignment Operators
- Introduction to Functions
- Strings

### Not Started

- Execution priority
- Tips and tricks

### Enhancements

- Strings
    - Put reference to other notes in the bibliography
    - Include section on special characters
- Introduction to Functions
    - Mention positional arguments and keyword arguments
- Comments
    - Needs better examples
- Operators
    - Make url to sections (is it possible for this to be relative?)

## Data Structures

Removed this from Basics. Should I put this after if?

### Complete

- Intro
- Tuples
- Lists
- Dictionaries

### Incomplete

- Lists
    - Operations (concatenation, duplication)

### Enhancements

- Lists
    - Should I make a forwards reference to list comprehension?
- Dictionaries
    - Make forwards reference to looping
- Include sets? I've never used them...
- Make embedded structures section with some examples.



## If Statements

### Complete

- Intro
- Booleans
- Comparison Operators
- Logical Operators
- If Statements

### Enhancements

- Logical Operators
    - Give examples including comparison operators
- If Statements
    - more examples

## For and While Loops

### Complete

- Intro
- For Loops
- List Comprehension
- While Loops
- Breaking Out of Loops
- Else Statement and Loops

### Not Started

- Nested Loops

The remaining sections here are not a priority
- For loop examples
- While loop examples

### Enhancements

- breaking out of loops - show practical examples

## OOP - Not Started

## Packages

### In Progress

- Intro

### Not Started

- Scientific Packages
- Installing Packages with pip
- Installing Packages with conda

## NumPy

### Complete

- Intro
- Arrays

### Not Started

- Special functions
- 2D Arrays and Matrices
- Random numbers

## File I/O - Not Started

## Debugging - Not Started

## Functions - Not Started

## Least Squares/ Chi Squared Regression - Not Started

## SciPy - Not Started

## ODEs - Not Started

## Numerical Root Finding - Not Started

## Numerical Integration - Not Started

## Generating Random Numbers - Not Started

This material may not be included

Commit message:

- add content: benchmarking,array methods -build and serve

CHAPTERS.md, after:

# Chapters

The current status of the chapters are recorded in this file.

## Corrections

- Change every occurrence where object attributes are referred to as properties.

## Misc

Change all instances where I use the word collection to sequence.

Items in this section are necessary to add, but I cannot place them at the moment.

- Checking object types using `is`
- Checking if object in collection using `in`
- *list to unpack
- `map()` function

## Introduction

### Complete

- What is a programming language
- Python, a Dynamic Programming Language

### Enhancements

- Make it more clear what the difference is between
  - Interpreted (really what I was going for with dynamic)
  - Dynamic vs static
  - Dynamic Typing vs static typing

## Python Basics

### Complete

- Intro
- Variables
- Comments
- Type Conversion
- Operators
- Assignment Operators
- Introduction to Functions
- Strings

### Not Started

- Execution priority
- Tips and tricks

### Enhancements

- Strings
    - Put reference to other notes in the bibliography
    - Include section on special characters
- Introduction to Functions
    - Mention positional arguments and keyword arguments
- Comments
    - Needs better examples
- Operators
    - Make url to sections (is it possible for this to be relative?)

## Data Structures

Removed this from Basics. Should I put this after if?

### Complete

- Intro
- Tuples
- Lists
- Dictionaries

### Incomplete

- Lists
    - Operations (concatenation, duplication)

### Enhancements

- Lists
  - Should I make a forwards reference to list comprehension?
- Dictionaries
  - Make forwards reference to looping
- Include sets? I've never used them...
- Make embedded structures section with some examples.

## If Statements

### Complete

- Intro
- Booleans
- Comparison Operators
- Logical Operators
- If Statements

### Enhancements

- Logical Operators
  - Give examples including comparison operators
- If Statements
  - more examples

## For and While Loops

### Complete

- Intro
- For Loops
- List Comprehension
- While Loops
- Breaking Out of Loops
- Else Statement and Loops

### Not Started

- Nested Loops

The remaining sections here are not a priority
- For loop examples
- While loop examples

### Enhancements

- breaking out of loops - show practical examples

## OOP - Not Started

## Packages

### In Progress

- Intro

### Not Started

- Scientific Packages
- Installing Packages with pip
- Installing Packages with conda

## Benchmarking

### In Progress

- Time
- Uncertainty

## NumPy

### Complete

- Intro
- Arrays

### Not Started

- Special functions
- 2D Arrays and Matrices
- Random numbers

## File I/O - Not Started

## Debugging - Not Started

## Functions - Not Started

## Least Squares/ Chi Squared Regression - Not Started

## SciPy - Not Started

## ODEs - Not Started

## Numerical Root Finding - Not Started

## Numerical Integration - Not Started

## Generating Random Numbers - Not Started

This material may not be included
